CDI Lite packaging, deployment and lifecycle specification (#546)
jakartaee/cdi: spec/src/main/asciidoc/core/packagingdeployment.asciidoc

== Packaging and deployment

> In {cdi_lite}, the term _deployment time_ means before the application is started, such as during application compilation, or during application startup at latest.

Reviewer: This sounds a little weird as an opening sentence of a paragraph. Maybe swap places with the following one?

Author: Makes sense, will do.

When determining which archives are bean archives, the container must consider all archives that constitute the application.
Implementations are encouraged to document how the candidate archives are found in more detail.

The `beans.xml` file must be named:

* `META-INF/beans.xml`.

The container searches for beans in all bean archives discovered as described above.

If a bean class is deployed in two different bean archives, non-portable behavior results.
Portable applications must deploy each bean class in no more than one bean archive.

Implicit bean archives are likely to contain classes which are not deployed as beans.

An extension may be deployed in any archive, including those that are not bean archives.

[[deployment]]

=== Deployment

At deployment time, the container performs the following steps:

* First, the container must perform type discovery, as defined in <<type_discovery_steps>>.
  As part of that, the container must execute <<bce_discovery,`@Discovery`>> and <<bce_enhancement,`@Enhancement`>> extension methods on build compatible extensions.
* Next, the container must perform bean discovery, as defined in <<bean_discovery_steps>>.

>   As part of that, the container must execute <<bce_registration,`@Registration`>> and <<bce_synthesis,`@Synthesis`>> extension methods on build compatible extensions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  As part of that, the container must execute <<bce_registration,`@Registration`>> and <<bce_synthesis,`@Synthesis`>> extension methods in build compatible extensions.
```

* Finally, the container must detect deployment problems by validating bean dependencies.

>   As part of that, the container must execute <<bce_validation,`@Validation`>> extension methods on build compatible extensions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  As part of that, the container must execute <<bce_validation,`@Validation`>> extension methods in build compatible extensions.
```

==== Type discovery

First the container must discover types.
The container discovers each Java class with a bean defining annotation in an implicit bean archive.

> The container must also execute `@Discovery` extension methods on build compatible extensions and discover all classes added using the `ScannedClasses` API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The container must also execute `@Discovery` extension methods in build compatible extensions and discover all classes added using the `ScannedClasses` API.
```

> When all types are discovered, the container must execute `@Enhancement` extension methods on build compatible extensions and alter its metadata representation of discovered types.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When all types are discovered, the container must execute `@Enhancement` extension methods in build compatible extensions and alter metadata representation of discovered types accordingly.
```

Author: I added "accordingly". I don't think I agree with "on" -> "in".

* inspect the type metadata to determine if it is a bean, and then
* detect definition errors by validating the class and its metadata, and then
* determine which alternatives and interceptors are enabled, according to the rules defined in <<enablement>>.

For each enabled bean, the container must search the class for producer methods and fields, as defined in <<producer_method>> and in <<producer_field>>, including resources, and for disposer methods as defined in <<disposer_method>>, and for observer methods.

Then, the container registers the `Bean` and `ObserverMethod` objects:

* For each enabled bean that is not an interceptor, the container registers an instance of the `Bean` interface defined in <<bean>>.
* For each enabled interceptor, the container registers an instance of the `Interceptor` interface defined in <<interceptor>>.
* For each observer method of every enabled bean, the container registers an instance of the `ObserverMethod` interface defined in <<observer_method>>.

> The container must execute all `@Registration` extension methods on build compatible extensions for each registered bean, interceptor, and observer method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The container must execute all `@Registration` extension methods in build compatible extensions for each registered bean, interceptor, and observer method.
```

Reviewer: I am also not sure that you need to mention interceptors specifically since they are technically beans anyway.

Author: I'll remove this mention from the spec text, it's explicitly mentioned in the javadoc (and I believe that should stay).

> Next, the container must execute all `@Synthesis` extension methods on build compatible extensions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, the container must execute all `@Synthesis` extension methods in build compatible extensions.
```

For each registered synthetic bean, the container registers an instance of the `Bean` interface.
For each registered synthetic observer, the container registers an instance of the `ObserverMethod` interface.

> Finally, the container must execute all `@Registration` extension methods on build compatible extensions for each synthetic bean and synthetic observer method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, the container must execute all `@Registration` extension methods in build compatible extensions for each synthetic bean and synthetic observer method.
```
